How's that working? Can you tell me your name, just for the purposes of the recording?
Yes, Gareth Jones.
And are you from Swansea, Gareth?
Yes, I'm from Morriston, Bournemouth.
So you grew up here, and when did you first go to a football match?
I think I was in my twenties, because I was working in town, and I finished at midday on a Saturday, so it was a kind of ritual.
I met some mates and made some prasada, do you remember the prasada? Are you from Swansea?
I'm not from Swansea, but where was that then? A pub, I presume?
Yes, by the castle, there's a green patch of grass to the right of the castle, and that's where the pub was, prasada.
Right by the old Eden & Post building.
And then we'd go down to the Wretch or St Helens.
Either or, you would go to whoever was playing.
Because virtually one was home one week, and the other one the other week.
So whichever was at home.
We had no drafts, and it was very rare they were home the same day anyway.
So it would normally be like that every other week.
I used to go back to my mates then, to eat again, and then go down to Mumford Street with us.
That was a busy Saturday.
It was a busy Saturday.
Sorry, can I ask you how old you are?
I'm seventy-six.
Seventy-six, right, so you didn't go when you were a child then?
Not a child.
Not when you were a grown-up?
I was in my twenties.
Yes, I was in my twenties.
I used to go there.
So that would have been, I can't word that out, in the 1960s.
Fifty years ago, was it?
Yeah, in the 1960s.
Yeah, yeah, sorry, I can't word that out.
I can't word it.
Well, when were you born?
I was born in 1936.
So it would have been around the beginning of the 1960s.
Yeah.
And so was it more just like to go and watch a bit of sport rather than particularly the football or particularly the rugby?
Did you have a preference?
I've always had a preference for rugby.
Ah, right.
You know, particularly now when people are playing football, I don't know what to call it.
I'm overpaid and...
Overpaid.
I can't do that.
I don't like it.
I did watch the Spanish game, the final.
It was the only one I watched.
And that was a good game.
They were playing just like Swansea.
They were.
Tim told you that there's a man here who used to play for us once?
Yes, but he's had a stroke.
He's had a stroke, yeah, and he can't really...
He'd be very excited that you were there.
No, I was ashamed, but I understand we couldn't really talk to him.
Trying to remember the players around about things.
I go out yet, and then out yet.
Well, again, because they either had been away and come back again.
Yes, right.
Towards the end of his career.
Yeah.
And...
Jones, there's a Jones boy, Jones, in the wing.
Barry, Barry Jones.
No, I don't think it's Barry.
Cliff.
Cliff Jones.
Yeah, he was another international.
And of course the Swans had the best schoolboy team.
Indeed, yeah.
They were excellent.
They were, it was really good.
And they came up through the ranks then, yeah.
No, they had even back into the 1930s, they had schoolboy teams that won the cup, you know, for the whole country.
And there's a centre forward called Trevor Ford.
Oh yeah, he was a good local boy.
Oh yeah, he brought many in there, I think.
He would just let it go in, otherwise he'd go in with it.
I think there is a, I think I read a story about that, that he scored and the referee didn't give it, and he made them come and look, there was actually a hole in the net.
Yes, that's right, yeah.
That's a...
Which was good for...
He was very famous.
I'm trying to remember some defenders.
I can't quite remember.
I've been reading about them but I can't remember them all.
No.
So then, but did you carry on going there?
No, I...
I stopped going to both actually when I got married.
Yeah.
I got married in 66.
Right, so...
And I didn't bother.
And not only that, I just realised now, the company I was working for, I was a travel agent.
They started opening all day Saturday.
Oh, so that was it.
To now the naps.
So I've been down the stadium.
The new one?
Yeah.
Did you go, because Tipper was saying he took a group of people down there, or have you been on the...
No, I've been down, yeah, I've just had to pluck up courage, you know, I'm starting to get myself, pull myself together, it's a quite fascinating time.
And I'm going out tomorrow with my steps and I'm coming over from Florida to see me, you know.
So I'm going down to Mumbles.
I'm going to be living only my second time out.
Really?
Yeah.
You wouldn't be drinking quite as much as...
Quite as much, but I like it.
Not when you were 20.
I got one there.
Oh, I like that.
That's my lunchtime...
Perotif, is it, Igor?
Excellent.
I stopped after that, so I was very short-lived in the vegetable.
We all was under the double decker.
Ah, right, yeah.
And that was a beautiful, well, it wasn't a beautiful stand, but everybody there in the vegetable did.
I don't know, it was a...
Well, it was very, very swish and new when they built it in 1927.
It was quite modern.
We were just under it, just under it to the right, so we could see the goal, the slide down there.
Right.
So many a goal going there.
Didn't the away supporters go up that end as well?
No, I think the away supporters were on the...
On the little...
What do you think about that?
The towel end.
Yeah, of course they built a stand there after I left, so I think a lot of them were put in there.
I can't be sure about that.
Yeah, they...
Because I think Leighton, yeah, I think they used to...
Oh, I can't remember, I used to go down there in the 1980s, but I think they built that stand at the towel end.
That's right, that would have been called the North Stand.
The North Bank was the main home, terrace was there all along that one side.
And there was a little bank at one end, the town, the bus station.
The end behind one end, that's right, yeah.
And then they double-decked it.
Well, I'd stopped going a long time before that, so I can't be sure.
But it was...
It was a long time ago that I saw a football match, a live football match.
Oh, right, so you said you'd been to the stadium, but just to have a look.
I was just going to see Robbie.
I have come here to see the...
Because I am a rugby man.
Yeah.
And I went with my sister and family there to season tickets.
Oh, right, right.
He and my mother, some of us couldn't go either, through the streets kind of.
Yeah, but was it a bit... because the Swans, I mean the Whites still play at St Helens.
The Whites still play at St Helens, yeah.
Because they are not quite at the same standard.
No, no.
And Neath, of course, they still got a side.
Yeah.
So... and that's in Neath.
And they all got...
The north.
The north, yeah.
But did... I mean, now you've seen... I know it's not quite as thing...
I was a bit more interested in the football,
but interested to know what you think about watching any game up at the Liberty,
say compared to St Helens or the...
Oh, I think the Liberty is a fine stadium.
Did you prefer it, do you think?
Yes, absolutely.
And the pitch was brilliant.
Yeah, I mean, it's great.
Yeah. It's the same at the end of the season, is it?
Or was it the beginning of the season, kind of?
And there's no... because the... I mean, people...
Well, especially the Vetch people look...
But it's quite nostalgic, the vision of it, but it was pretty scrubby.
I thought this dude would be knocked down.
It has been. It's gone now.
Has it gone?
Yeah, it's an empty space.
It's been left in circulation for the last six, eight months.
But it's... it's finally been demolished.
Right. And they put in hoses and screws and...
There's nothing... I'm not sure if there's any real concrete plan.
It's just an empty space at the moment.
And they stay as a park or something.
I don't really know, but they...
I don't think it has gone, I see.
I've been on the circulation for...
...three, four months.
They just sat there, falling down for five or six years.
I think they thought they'd better get rid of it before it falls.
Before it falls or something.
Yeah, well, there was always...
Always people complaining that bits were falling off it into their houses and things like that.
It was never...
You can't have that, yeah.
No, but it was...
So, was there any...
Is there any particular soccer match you can remember, any particular high spot of your...
I think it's when we went into the...
...the First Division, maybe.
Yeah.
When we beat Leeds-Millard here.
That was some of the red.
I think there was... I can't be sure, but I think there was a back here.
Oh, you went... So you did go back for the OB game...
Yes.
...after you were stopped in a regular.
Yeah, I was divorced by them.
Sorry?
I was divorced by them.
Oh, right.
So I was in your game.
But, no, I think I went there.
Hmm.
I just...
What was the...
Very few.
Yeah.
But you didn't have any children to take down there or anything?
Yes, I did, however, but...
My son was, again, more interested in rugby.
Ah, he was over it, and there wasn't any pressure to get...
And my daughter wasn't interested in any sport.
Oh, fair enough.
Well, drop this for a...
She was busy studying computer on the nurse.
Oh, right. That's fair enough.
She's done very well.
Because it seemed...
Because talking to quite a few people, it seems there's a real,
oh, my grandfather took me down there,
or my father took me down there.
It's often been something that...
It's a kind of part of growing up in Swansea has been to be taken down to the...
For people all around me, but they...
Yeah.
They were, oh, fair enough.
Well, that's it. We've probably more sides at the moment.
Mmm, yeah.
Osprey's just won the...
...air championship.
Yes. What do you call it?
God knows how I get confused.
All right?
How are you doing?
OK, thanks, sir.
Excellent. Are you remembering?
Just, it's very hard.
Yeah, that's good stuff. He needs more beer, though.
Oh, you're right.
That's good.
Well, at the moment, Jack is sitting in the dining room,
and he has an auditorium full of people.
Really?
Yeah, he's having...
I don't know if he's going to get anything...
Is he recording them?
He is recording, yeah. He is recording.
But I don't know if he's going to get anything of...
He's talking to one of the ladies who remember sitting outside the bench,
waiting for her husband to come out.
Do you need more consent forms?
Probably, yeah.
I'll photocopy some. I've got some up here.
Don't worry. Sorry, Gareth, I think I'm going to second it.
But if it's something that you need to do afterwards,
don't worry about...
OK.
There's no rush for us to take...
Yeah, all right, it is.
Just to kind of...
You know, dotting the eyes kind of thing.
Just again, to make sure maybe you can see...
We would have had no way in.
It's too bad he doesn't want to do that, sir.
Yeah, but...
No problem.
Right.
Well, that sounds quite exciting.
God knows what he's finding out, doesn't it?
Mind you, having said that, I don't know what else I can ask you guys.
But you never went to an away game or anything?
Oh, no, I wasn't that keen.
I wasn't that keen. It was right behind us.
But it was just...
As a whole, mind you.
It was just a bit of entertainment for you rather than a passion.
Yeah, well, I worked Saturdays, you see.
Well, that doesn't help, does it?
That doesn't help, does it, sir?
Mm.
Don't know, yeah.
But do you think...
Yeah, I suppose it's always been a part of the town.
They've always had the football and the rugby club.
Oh, yes, yes.
But now...
But he was saying now, do you think it's more...
I mean, is it a bigger thing now that they're premiered?
Oh, yeah, yes.
I think it will help to increase the crowds at the stadium as well.
Was it...
I mean, William brings in people, doesn't he?
I think so.
Yeah, I think it puts Swansea on the map around the world.
Yeah.
It's been great.
They did very well to stay up.
Because very often people come up, go straight back down.
Because in the 1980s, the Swans came up from the 4th Division as it was.
Yeah.
Right up to the 1st Division.
Actually in the top of the 1st Division for one week.
Yeah, once.
Once.
And they went back down and they were up in the 4th Division again.
Well, they had one good year and they finished...
They were sixth when they finished.
And then there was the following year, it just went...
Glance, yeah.
And that probably was the year that they, at the last game of the season, decided whether they stayed in the 2nd Division or...
There was a bit later, there was a...
Yeah, sorry, carry on.
The match they played was, if they won, they stayed in the 2nd Division.
I think that's the Lewis Division now.
That was a bit later, yeah, that was in 2003.
2003, was it?
Yeah.
And if they lost, they could go down to the...
Into the...
Abyss.
Into the conference, as it's called, out of the...
What's the word? Abyss, yeah?
The what?
The Abyss.
Oh, the Abyss, oh yeah, definitely into the footballing Abyss.
Oh yeah, you're quite right, they would have...
Because Rexall was never come back.
Newport was never come back.
No.
No, Rexall nearly did last year.
Yeah.
So they might do better this year.
But yeah, you're right, it's...
So that one...
It's happening.
Yeah.
The graph of the ups and downs of the 100 years.
The unit team would have come straight up from the 4th to the 3rd to the 2nd...
Was it the 2nd Division then?
Yeah, there were 4 Division...
Anyway, I think they had one stop along the way, I think they were 2 years in one.
It was still the quickest rise, I think, of anybody in that.
Oh yeah, yeah.
And the quickest get back down again.
Oh, they went down quick and they came up.
But yeah, I think this coach will do well, because he likes...
He used to play our style of football.
I think that's why they liked him.
Yeah.
And they... yeah.
I think hopefully they'll do well.
Nice.
It's a 2-year contract, but hopefully they'll extend it.
Well, we'll see.
Yeah.
That'll be fun.
Watch this space.
Yeah.
Oh, that's great though, but is there anything else?
I hope they have some help.
That's brilliant.
It's all... yeah.
See, it's a project just trying to get...
Just all the memories and experiences of the fans over...
It's a pity you can't speak to them.